---
title: '角煮 Kakuni'

servings: '4'
time: '4 hours 15 minutes'
link: https://www.justonecookbook.com/braised-pork-belly-kakuni/

layout: post
tags: Japanese
categories: Japanese
published: true 
---
<table class="table table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">#</th>
      <th scope="col">Quantity</th>
      <th scope="col">Ingredient</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">1</th>
      <td>1 lb</td>
      <td>Pork Belly</td>
    </tr>
     <tr>
      <th scope="row">2</th>
      <td>1 knob (<em>2 in</em>)</td>
      <td>Ginger</td>
    </tr>
     <tr>
      <th scope="row">3</th>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>Negi (<em>or green Onions</em>)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">4</th>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>Large Eggs</td>
    </tr>  
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">5</th>
      <td>2 1/2 cups</td>
      <td>Dashi</td>
    </tr> 
     <tr>
      <th scope="row">6</th>
      <td>4 tablespoons</td>
      <td>Sake</td>
    </tr> 
     <tr>
      <th scope="row">7</th>
      <td>3 tablespoons</td>
      <td>Mirin</td>
    </tr> 
    </tr> 
     <tr>
      <th scope="row">8</th>
      <td>4 tablespoons</td>
      <td>Sugar</td>
    </tr> 
    </tr> 
     <tr>
      <th scope="row">9</th>
      <td>4 tablespoons</td>
      <td>Soy Sauce</td>
    </tr> 
    </tr> 
     <tr>
      <th scope="row">10</th>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>Dried Red Chili Pepper</td>
    </tr> 
  </tbody>
</table>

<br>  

## Instructions
1. Gather all the ingredients.
2. Pound the **pork** on both sides with a meat pounder (*or the back of the knife*).
3. Then mold the meat back into the original shape with your hands, and then cut into *2 inch (5 cm)* pieces.
4. Heat oil on the heavy skillet over medium-high heat and place the side with fat down. Cook the meat until all sides are nicely browned. To prevent oil splatter, you can use a splatter screen.
5. When the meat is nicely browned, transfer it to a paper towel and wipe off excess fat.
6. Slice the **ginger** and cut the green part of **Tokyo Negi** into *2-inch (5 cm)* pieces. **Save two slices for later.**
7. With the white part of Tokyo Negi, make shiraga negi for garnish (*See How To Make Shiraga Negi*).
8. In a large pot, put the seared pork belly, green part of the negi, half of the sliced ginger (*save the half for later*), and pour water to cover the meat.
9. Bring it to a boil and then reduce heat to simmer. Cook uncovered (*so unwanted smell goes away*) for **2-3 hours**, turning occasionally (*if you want really tender meat, cook for at least 3 hours*). When the liquid is running low, keep adding water (*or hot water*) to cover the meat.
10. Meanwhile, make 3 hard-boiled **eggs**.
11. After cooking for **2 hours**, drain the water and take out the meat, and wipe off excess oil with a paper towel.
12. In a large heavy bottom pot (*I use a Dutch oven*), add the pork belly, **dashi**, **sake**, and **mirin**. Start cooking on medium-high heat.
13. Add **sugar**, **soy sauce**, the rest of the ginger slices, and the **red chili pepper** (*I remove the seeds so it won't be too spicy for my kids*).
14. When boiling, lower the heat but keep simmering. Place otoshibuta (*drop lid*) on top and do not need to put a regular lid. We’ll be cooking for **1 hour** on simmer/low heat.
15. After cooking for **30 minutes** (*halfway at this point*), add the hard-boiled eggs. Remove otoshibuta.
16. Continue simmering for another **30 minutes**. Occasionally pour the sauce on top of the meat and rotate the meat and eggs. **Make sure you have enough liquid so they won’t get burnt**. When the sauce gets reduced and the meat has a nice glaze, it’s ready to serve.